index.md, before:

# CanalNETWORK software product

Well come.

This is official site for documentation and guide of CanalNetwork software, and related products. This site is routinely maintained and updated by Quanomic ITES PLC.

We will continually update this site to provide information on progress and latest developments.



This site will also be the platform for online documentation. Contents relevant to software users will soon be available with a link on this page.



[Learn about latest updates and feature enhancements for Nov-Dec2022 here.](Updates/Updates_Dec22/updatenotesDec2022.md)



Previous updates can be accessed below:

[Updates for Aug-Nov 2022 here](Updates/Update_Sep22/Update_Sep22.md)

[Updates for Jan22 to Jun22 (Partly)](Updates/Update_Jan22/Update_Jan22.md)





## Online documentation

This online resource site is under continuous devekiopment and enhancement. New contents will be added frequently, and additions and enhancements are published often. Please make sure you always have the most uptodate reference to our products by directly accessing this resource site.

> For the best experience while browing contents, we recommend using Chrome Browser, and installing a *Table of Contents* extension. This will automatically provide a navigation side bar that can help to quickly locate content on differnt pages.

Available guides and documentation:

[1. Introducing CanalNETWORK software](Introduction/Introduction.md)

[2. About Design Criteria](DesignCriteria/AboutDesignCriteria.md)

[3. Creating & Manageing Design Criteria](DesignCriteria/CreatingAndManagingDesignCriteria.md)

[4. Layout Plans and Netowrk Resolution](Layout_plans_and_Network_Resolution/Layout_plans_and_Network_Resolution.md)

[5. Farm Blocks and Netowrk Sizing](Farm_Blocks_and_Network_Sizing/Farm_Blocks_and_Network_Sizing.md)

[6. Longitudinal Design of Canals](Longitudinal_Design_of_Routes/LongitudinalDesignOfRoutes.md)

[7. Design of Canal Structures using Floating Nodes.](DesignOfRegulatingStructures/DesignOfRegulatingStructures.md)

[8. Design Production (**NEW**)](DesignProduction/DesignProduction.md)

## Technical Information

Additional technical details are available in below list:

[1. Surface Modelling and Profile Calauctions in iCAD](Surface_Modelling/Surface_modelling_and_interpolation.md)

[2. Flow section design in CanalNETWORK](Flow_section_design/Flow_section_Design.md)

[3. Design of Drop Structures](DesignOfDrops/DropDesign.md)

[4. Design of Division Box Structures](DivisionBoxDesign/DivisionBoxDesign.md)

[5. Hydraulic Jumps and Energy Dessipation Mechanisms (In progress)]()

More technical documents will be posted soon.

Also review below technical materials. Note, the links will take you to a private space in google drive and use google docs to view the document. Feel free to download and use the matierials at convenience.

[+   Validation of Key iCAD modules and functions](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1K38jjh0SFBZiFCOiaqf_8n-RDvc3V4gb/view?usp=sharing)

[+   Modelling Capability of iCAD Modules](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15iZLkyAoFJM9jCSqfBpkTJrZhTMYknst/view?usp=sharing)

## How To Articles

Below you will find short articles that provide guidance to tackle specific design tasks usung iCAD and/ or CanalNETWORK product. Using the techniques and tips included in this article can increase productivity significantly. The contents may not be included in the user guides listed above (under the section Online Documentation).

[1. Using ProfileJET tool](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1no0ma14PHBeYvTgVaHcUNWvUm17cwhDAJKSM6lXWEzI/edit?usp=sharing)

[2. Partial Import for Layout Prepration](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GNsLIhaI3wnscL1bH9OTICLZbz3E1vtto5NMTLGwoH8/edit?usp=sharing)

[3. Creating a Design Criteria File](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Vl3bd5dyFQv-2LWlqV_XWLibCPkRZV7rLPQPQNpdmKI/edit?usp=sharing)

[4. Managing Your Work Space](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11ioyYbow15pJYOi9j7HVHQcsvE8OM4w5A8nQOjCGKqE/edit?usp=sharing)

[5. Using Alternative Data Source](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aEDDOWKBUMy0M74H07-eg0ixApwYM3u6rXi7C5mo2FQ/edit?usp=sharing)

[6. Profile Extraction for Network of Canals](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VdqBEigWM_XrKYrMueF51kNFAwpH4_qRvhmj3TfZG14/edit?usp=sharing)

[7. Collaborating on Large Projects](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gYwRNdLo_9uG-xG24RNo_pDW1aMs5tgX/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=102474812384847533321&rtpof=true&sd=true)

[8. Design of Canal Structures using Floating Nodes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ywZ02JvbcUlRRO3mwWogG4ZTRjwKy4x2pbU4MAhgZFw/edit?usp=sharing)

[9. Understanding FLow Check in CanalNETWORK](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jr9SPyF_zM2eyNAKcefduKt1Rzi2wtrKuiuOtSVA830/edit?usp=sharing)

Stay tuned for more content on techniques and tips to tackle complex design tasks with ease and efficiency using out products.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For information visit Our website at [www.quanomic.co](https://www.quanomic.co).

Commit message:

Linked in link included on index page

index.md, after:

# CanalNETWORK software product

Well come.

This is official site for documentation and guide of CanalNetwork software, and related products. This site is routinely maintained and updated by Quanomic ITES PLC.

We will continually update this site to provide information on progress and latest developments.



This site will also be the platform for online documentation. Contents relevant to software users will soon be available with a link on this page.



[Learn about latest updates and feature enhancements for Nov-Dec2022 here.](Updates/Updates_Dec22/updatenotesDec2022.md)



Previous updates can be accessed below:

[Updates for Aug-Nov 2022 here](Updates/Update_Sep22/Update_Sep22.md)

[Updates for Jan22 to Jun22 (Partly)](Updates/Update_Jan22/Update_Jan22.md)



pos

## Online documentation

This online resource site is under continuous devekiopment and enhancement. New contents will be added frequently, and additions and enhancements are published often. Please make sure you always have the most uptodate reference to our products by directly accessing this resource site.

> For the best experience while browing contents, we recommend using Chrome Browser, and installing a *Table of Contents* extension. This will automatically provide a navigation side bar that can help to quickly locate content on differnt pages.

Available guides and documentation:

[1. Introducing CanalNETWORK software](Introduction/Introduction.md)

[2. About Design Criteria](DesignCriteria/AboutDesignCriteria.md)

[3. Creating & Manageing Design Criteria](DesignCriteria/CreatingAndManagingDesignCriteria.md)

[4. Layout Plans and Netowrk Resolution](Layout_plans_and_Network_Resolution/Layout_plans_and_Network_Resolution.md)

[5. Farm Blocks and Netowrk Sizing](Farm_Blocks_and_Network_Sizing/Farm_Blocks_and_Network_Sizing.md)

[6. Longitudinal Design of Canals](Longitudinal_Design_of_Routes/LongitudinalDesignOfRoutes.md)

[7. Design of Canal Structures using Floating Nodes.](DesignOfRegulatingStructures/DesignOfRegulatingStructures.md)

[8. Design Production (**NEW**)](DesignProduction/DesignProduction.md)

## Technical Information

Additional technical details are available in below list:

[1. Surface Modelling and Profile Calauctions in iCAD](Surface_Modelling/Surface_modelling_and_interpolation.md)

[2. Flow section design in CanalNETWORK](Flow_section_design/Flow_section_Design.md)

[3. Design of Drop Structures](DesignOfDrops/DropDesign.md)

[4. Design of Division Box Structures](DivisionBoxDesign/DivisionBoxDesign.md)

[5. Hydraulic Jumps and Energy Dessipation Mechanisms (In progress)]()

More technical documents will be posted soon.

Also review below technical materials. Note, the links will take you to a private space in google drive and use google docs to view the document. Feel free to download and use the matierials at convenience.

[+   Validation of Key iCAD modules and functions](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1K38jjh0SFBZiFCOiaqf_8n-RDvc3V4gb/view?usp=sharing)

[+   Modelling Capability of iCAD Modules](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15iZLkyAoFJM9jCSqfBpkTJrZhTMYknst/view?usp=sharing)

## How To Articles

Below you will find short articles that provide guidance to tackle specific design tasks usung iCAD and/ or CanalNETWORK product. Using the techniques and tips included in this article can increase productivity significantly. The contents may not be included in the user guides listed above (under the section Online Documentation).

[1. Using ProfileJET tool](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1no0ma14PHBeYvTgVaHcUNWvUm17cwhDAJKSM6lXWEzI/edit?usp=sharing)

[2. Partial Import for Layout Prepration](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GNsLIhaI3wnscL1bH9OTICLZbz3E1vtto5NMTLGwoH8/edit?usp=sharing)

[3. Creating a Design Criteria File](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Vl3bd5dyFQv-2LWlqV_XWLibCPkRZV7rLPQPQNpdmKI/edit?usp=sharing)

[4. Managing Your Work Space](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11ioyYbow15pJYOi9j7HVHQcsvE8OM4w5A8nQOjCGKqE/edit?usp=sharing)

[5. Using Alternative Data Source](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aEDDOWKBUMy0M74H07-eg0ixApwYM3u6rXi7C5mo2FQ/edit?usp=sharing)

[6. Profile Extraction for Network of Canals](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VdqBEigWM_XrKYrMueF51kNFAwpH4_qRvhmj3TfZG14/edit?usp=sharing)

[7. Collaborating on Large Projects](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gYwRNdLo_9uG-xG24RNo_pDW1aMs5tgX/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=102474812384847533321&rtpof=true&sd=true)

[8. Design of Canal Structures using Floating Nodes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ywZ02JvbcUlRRO3mwWogG4ZTRjwKy4x2pbU4MAhgZFw/edit?usp=sharing)

[9. Understanding FLow Check in CanalNETWORK](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jr9SPyF_zM2eyNAKcefduKt1Rzi2wtrKuiuOtSVA830/edit?usp=sharing)

Stay tuned for more content on techniques and tips to tackle complex design tasks with ease and efficiency using out products.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Follow us on [**LinkedIn** ](https://www.linkedin.com/company/quanomic-ites/) in to get insights and news on our efforts.

For information visit Our website at [www.quanomic.co](https://www.quanomic.co).
